# Response
Very insightful finds! Playing around with your script led me to learn more about the paths for message queues on different machines as well. One thing that I haven't realized before today was the location of message queues can be modified by any superuser. According to mq_overview (in the section where you were most likely referring as well) message queues are created in a specified virtual filesystem via the following commands:

```shell
su
mkdir /dev/mqueue
mount -t mqueue none /dev/mqueue
```

This shows that message queues can be mounted in any directory, which can lead to some interesting outcomes. For example, on my host machine where I have superuser privileges, I am able to mount the filesystem in my current directory: 

I can then run a modified version of your script where it also accepts a user-provided path to the message queue filesystem:
 

When I pause the execution and peak at the files on both of the directories, it turns out they form links to each other:
 

Unfortunately, this has only been tested on Linux.

# OP
When researching message queues, I came across the mq_notify() [1] method and noticed it didn't make it into our lectures for the module. I decided to take a quick glance at its usage and surprisingly it wasn't too difficult to implement. The method is used for setting up listeners that can be alerted when a message is posted on the queue. It requires a sigevent object that determines the method of its notification, and then uses mq_receive() to read the message from the queue. I found an example online that demonstrates the proper setup of this signal attribute [2] and it wasn't very difficult to follow considering we've covered signals extensively.

I've added a set of files that demonstrate a very simple case of mq_notify(). They're located in sahmed80/mqnotify The notifier portion is identical to the usual message queue server, where messages inputted by the user are placed on the queue. The listener portion uses signals to get notified on when the queue receives a new message. The message is then read, converted to upper case, and dumped to stdout.

[1] https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/mq_notify.3.html
[2] http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/man3/mq_notify.3.html
