# Question 1

We are covering a pretty big language and topic in just a week. There are a lot of topics in Perl we didn't even touch on in our Course Content. For this discussion, take a look at the on-line references, and the Schwartz text if you have it, and pick one aspect of Perl we didn't touch on which is of interest to you. Explain that aspect in your discussion post, and either 'teach' the rest of your discussion group about it, perhaps even with an example you can share with the class, or describe how this topic interests you, but there is some aspect of it you don't quite understand - why something works the way it does, or why something you think should work doesn't - and let the rest of us (me included) help figure it out.

# Question 2

Alternatively, for those who have known Perl before the class, another common debate is the merits of Perl versus Python. For those who have worked with one, or both, this is a chance for you to express your opinion on which is better. We chose to spend more time covering Perl in this class and less on Python; would it have been better to focus more on Python? Be sure to give some good support for your position.

I've used Perl before, but in a very limited capacity. I can recount using Perl exactly once when I needed its performance on text processing while simultaneously providing a relatively higher level of readability compared to bash statements. However, I have used Python for years because of its readability. From my experience, I have found Python to be exceptionally easier to use in demos to clients because of its human-readable syntax. Although I found the syntax of Perl to not be overly complex, I still felt the difference when it came to simple operations with strings. Defining strings in Perl is relatively simple - however, even printing out contents of a variable `var` requires an understanding of its numerous reserved symbols, like `print "This is $var\n"`. Perl strings also have an operator `=~` where a substring can be found using regular expressions. This method is fairly useful since replicating the task in Python would require the `re` library. However, for beginners in programming language paradigms or those unfamiliar with regular expressions, statements like `if "substr" in string` usually feels more readable.

# Response

One of the only times I used Perl was because of its superior text processing capabilities. Although maybe not better than grep in terms of performance, I found it to be the ideal language to use on a task that required fast text-processing while also being human-readable. I didn't have any experience with Perl, so I was persistent in utilizing the Python script I wrote that was considerably more concise and elegant than several grep statements. However, when it came to scalability, I found a clear difference in performance. I eventually tried my hands on Perl, and found it to be the suitable medium between the two languages. Although the difference in performance compared to Python was a lot more significant than I had hypothesized. Here's a performance comparison of Perl against Python when it comes to their regular expression engines. [1]

[1] https://perlmaven.com/compare-the-speed-of-perl-and-python-regex
