# Question 1

Throughout the course content in this module, there have been questions and even some 'puzzles' scattered throughout. Pick one of the questions or puzzles, and give your take on the answer. Please only address a question that hasn't already been taken by one of the other students in your discussion area. Or, if you like, you can pose your own question or "puzzle" to the discussion area related to the module topics. (Making your own question or puzzle will make the required followup posts by your fellow students pretty easy.) For your question, you can also use any of the topic areas in your text which the module content didn't discuss (like "Race Conditions" in Chapter 8, or "Job Control" in Chapter 9 - oh, but don't cover setjmp/longjmp since we will cover that in the next module). Make sure your question is a bit more detailed than a simple "True/False" or one that has a simple one word answer - it has to be a question that requires at least a few sentences to answer (similar to the questions and puzzles in the Course Content).

I've decided to take a look at `sit.c`, and it reminded me of the system calls `wait` and `sleep` which provide similar functionalities of "pausing" the program. Each of those functions serve their own purpose when it comes to synchronizing processes. `wait` is used by a parent process to wait for its child process to terminate and propagate its return value. `sleep` waits for a specified amount of time unconditionally. Both of those calls can still be interrupted with a signal - which is the only method to terminate a `pause` system call.

It is possible to implement some of the aforementioned system calls using each other. For example, using a timer to send a signal to `pause` can be used to simulate the `sleep` system call. The `poll` system call can actually be used to simulate either of those functions [1]:

```
#include <poll.h>

int pause(){
    return poll(0, 0, -1);
}

int sleep(unsigned int s){
    return poll(0, 0, s * 1000);
}
```

Going back to `sit.c`, running the program from the console will yield uneventful results, with the only meaningful option for the user is to send a SIGINT. Running multiple instances of the program can lead to potential issues if the user does not have the proper permissions to call the `killall` command.

[1]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56643202/difference-between-sleep-and-pause-library-functions-in-unistd-h
