# Question 1

Take a look at the manual page (or your text) for the flags which can be put into the sa_flags field of the sigaction structure. Some of these (e.g. SA_RESETHAND) seem to be present to allow the older, more problematic behavior of signals to continue. Which of these flags are present for this purpose, and more importantly, when would you use these particular flags, and why?

# Question 2

Certain functions should not be called from within signal handling functions. What kind of functions and why?

John and Natalia have already provided very well-informed and thorough information from their responses to this question! Instead of repeating their perspectives, I wanted to focus on one of the frequently mentioned functions: printf.

It has been established that the function is non-reentrant and should not be used in a signal handler. This is due to the function manipulating some global data, i.e. FILE\*. The function relies on other non-reentrant functions, such as malloc and free, which are also responsible for multiple global data. This can be an inconvenience if a user wanted to be notified if a certain signal was sent but did not want to use printf unsafely. Utilizing locks would not necessarily yield a solution. If a thread is interrupted by a signal before it calls printf, and the signal handler itself uses printf, the lock will be unattainable and with therefore result in a deadlock [1]. One method of circumventing this restriction is to use the basic write syscall, which is considered reentrant [2]. Another method would be to use some global atomic flag to indicate a signal was handled.

[1]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/signal-safety.7.html
[2]: https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19455-01/806-5257/gen-26/index.html

# Question 3

Next week we will be talking about threads. In some sense, why could a signal handling function can be considered a thread within a process? Can you outline, perhaps at a high level, how you might implement threads inside a process using signals and signal handlers? (Hint: you might want to look at signal stacks.) Are there any limitations in implementing threads in this way?
